---
title: "Augmented coral reef monitoring using a stationary reef monitoring system"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-01-05-ei
excerpt: ''
date: 2023-01-05
venue: 'Ecological Informatics, 74, 101972.'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoinf.2023.101972'
citation: 'Maurya, P., Balakrishnan, M., Raj, R., Naik, L., Fernandes, L., Dabholkar, N., ... & Navelkar, G. (2023). Augmented coral reef monitoring using a stationary reef monitoring system. Ecological Informatics, 74, 101972.'
authors: 'Maurya, P., Balakrishnan, M., Raj, R., <b>Naik, L.</b>, Fernandes, L., Dabholkar, N., Prabhudesai, S., Ravindran, J., Agarwadekar, Y. and Navelkar, G.'
type: 'Journal Article'
---

<b>Abstract:</b>
Coral reef monitoring is a reliable tool to assess the effect of climate change as corals are sensitive to increases in water temperatures between 30 °C and 35 °C resulting in bleaching - a whitening process when the corals lose their color and the reefs begin to die. Existing satellite-based monitoring products facilitate coral bleaching monitoring over large spatial scales, but their use in predicting local scale stress that influences the bleaching severity across reefs is limited. In this paper, we describe a Stationary Reef Monitoring System (SRMS) that monitors the time evolution of coral reefs through the photography of nearby coral clusters. Simultaneously, the SRMS measures and records environmental parameters such as temperature, solar irradiance (PAR), and salinity in the waters surrounding the coral colonies. When deployed in the sea, the SRMS detected a 0.1–0.4 °C variability in temperature between the in situ and satellite datasets. The SRMS uses color photography along with quantitative data on environmental parameters to monitor the health of corals and eliminates the need for physical/visual verification of coral health by a diver. By this approach, one can determine the stress thresholds of corals and identify the vulnerable and resilient reefs so as to prioritize conservation efforts.


<b>Recommended citation:</b>
Maurya, P., Balakrishnan, M., Raj, R., Naik, L., Fernandes, L., Dabholkar, N., ... & Navelkar, G. (2023). Augmented coral reef monitoring using a stationary reef monitoring system. Ecological Informatics, 74, 101972.